Um I don't think we can hear you. I can't hear you anyway,
a flight. Uh Welcome to this uh
webinar. This is our uh final webinar
and it is the extended one, although we extended
several ones before. But uh this is an official extended webinar
uh where we have to, you know, we are going to uh go through the
uh you know, different material
and certainly the uh project or
assessment to. So, uh as
usual, I'm going to open it a little bit for uh discussions,
although I'm keen to get on with the
material that I prepared to use so that we can,
you know, uh explain it, explain it thoroughly
and go through uh the various bits and pieces that he
wanted to uh to cover. So uh if you
have an urgent question, uh go ahead please.
Um I'm happy to hear,
is it, is it a good moment for questions regarding assessment or uh
like technical question about assessment implementation or it's better to do after work?
Uh Sorry, I can't understand what you're
asking. Kil. Uh Could you repeat, please?
No, I mean, I have a lot of questions regarding assessment uh
specific implementation questions. I just want to know if it's a good time
to ask it. Um I mean, I would uh
prefer if we uh go through first
the uh the material that I prepared. I think a lot of
your question, questions are going to be hopefully answered by this.
But if it's not, then by all means, feel free to
ask now or, or, or later. OK, I'll wait.
Thank you. Yeah, no problem at all. Um
Right. Uh But given that, you know, you,
you just uh um uh spoken curl. Do you want to
ask uh one or two questions that you found really important and
then we move forward. But, you know, I think as I said,
is this argument be hopefully address. Go ahead.
Yeah. OK. Uh First of all, this is about the state
representation. You suggested me in our email exchange
that it should be lidar scans, but uh it doesn't fit well with the fact that
we should uh uh set the MF
variable, which is the number of states.
Uh So, if you use like purely, uh it's quite impossible
because each number is a real number and uh it's then
state space become infinite like OK. Uh How many
combinations of real numbers in a range of 60 do we have infinity?
OK. Uh Or close to infinity in case of computer.
Uh So first state representation, let's put it this way.
I just want to put titles there. So state representation,
this is your one of your questions, any other ones who
have other questions? So this is going to be hopefully uh addressed today,
collision and rolling detection using vars collision.
Yeah. OK. Also be addressed today. Yeah,
Nicholas, but I have one regarding how do you build intuition
when you work through. So you know you start your algorithm and you see the
robot walk in and out and blah, blah blah.
How do you build intuition when you want to debug something do you look at?
OK. Maybe maybe my work function is wrong or is it how we evaluate the distance is
wrong? Like how do you go about building intuition to know where you need to
look to debug? Right? OK. Yes. Good question.
Also, this will be addressed today. Yeah.
Uh Hello, sorry. This is a bit selfish question,
but it's just about virtual machine time and I've run out of time on my virtual machine.
I think I emailed you about it and I'm just wondering when it's gonna be added as
I'm just waiting for that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
OK. Um Hopefully. Yes, yes, I will add to,
you know, uh I said this before. Any one of you who run out of my
time. Don't worry. Just let me know. Um
and I will add time to you. OK? Um
No worries. Right. OK. So um let
me share my screen with you. Uh
And
hopefully you can see my screen,
right? Ok. Um So this is a VM
uh it's a local VM uh that I am using.
This is the um quote updated
um lesson 16 where we just have a um
an idea how to address the uh the assessment.
So, um as usual,
this is like a bunch of um
libraries that we are going to utilize and uh
it's a bit slow because it is running. You can see the robot here is
uh being trained. It's um it's a bit um
still in the early stages and I'm not running it a lot.
I just, I just run it just before, you know,
we started it um uh
this session, uh as you can see, uh
it's uh it starts as usual in the middle and whenever it's run,
it run into a wall, it will automatically uh reus
restart or reset into this position and then
uh try again and again and again, each time when it
is running into a wall, this is not an episode.
OK. Let's be clear about that. This is not an episode.
This is like when we dealt with the cliff walk with the
cliff walk. Whenever the robots fall over the cliff,
we reset. But we don't assume that this is a new
episode. This is just a continuation and that will help the robot to,
to learn also not to hit walls, hopefully,
right, the state presentation here. What I'm running it
can be done, of course, in several ways.
Um What I'm running here is a grid
world where we, where I'm disc criticizing the world,
but this is not what you should be doing because it's a,
it's a bit crude and uh inaccurate.
Um
However, it's a good starting point. It's a good,
you know, just to gain this intuition that one of you
asked me about. Maybe it was ne I can't remember the who asked me?
Um So
the other state representation that we can utilize is when we
uh have the,
the state represented as the set of scans beams that we
in for the robot. At the moment. I uh this is
own preference. I've hidden these beams,
I'm using about 60 but you can use whatever how many you want.
Just don't, don't use 360 because this will make your
training slow, right? Um So, but
don't use multiple different state representation in the same environment.
Uh Do what we've done already in our
um material where I just did the grid first and then I
inherited the grid with all the functionality and I only changed the
state presentation that way it is much more efficient and you'll
be able to relate more to, to, to, to what's going
on. Um Professor I have a quick question.
If I may go on when we select 60 lasers,
are they 60 lasers around the robot or in a 60 degree cone in front of the robot.
No, that's a good question is around. Um
That's why because here there are, this is where it becomes different.
You know, the uh a great world, the simplified one,
we go north, south, you know, east and west
from the an actual physical robot where each turn it is turning in
place rather than moving sideways or up and down.
So, um yeah, I mean, this is
uh the, the, the uh best
the state presentation with, with, with the
beams. It makes more sense to
take into account the frontal one with the,
with one pile. But it's up to you, you can take all over,
you know, all around the, the uh you know,
the robot or you can, you, you might elect it up to you to choose only the,
the frontal one. OK. Um uh It's,
it's a matter of choice. This is where you want to,
you know, uh experiment with things and try to
do it your own way. Uh I must admit I might have
overdone it here because I was, you know,
I wanted to uh uh to give you a little bit of a boost and uh you know,
uh in addressing the, the assessment and uh
I'm going to explain now what, what we have done uh in
this uh uh in this environment.
So,
as usual, uh I put here,
by the way, what I'm going to explain here is I put everything in one
class so that it's easier maybe or not, you might argue
uh to just to see everything in front of you.
But uh later on, I will divide this and put uh you know,
and uh put them in stages if you prefer
um to receive it as is in one block, then let me
know. Um OK. So
the speed is the speed um uh the linear speed of the
robot fit the speed is the angular speed of the robot.
Uh OK. Um Robot here
is the twist. As we, you know, you might have uh realized that I'm
calling the twist instance. Uh you know,
this instance, I'm calling it a robot because this is how we are going to control and
it's useful for us because this is how we are,
you know, we treated previously. Um
uh our code. Uh the frequency is how many time uh
you know, with a timer will publish
uh you know uh to the publisher. Uh the
publisher here is the uh created
and passing twist not an instant as a like a class name.
What is the class that will be used? And this is the topic that we are publishing to,
which is the velocity you already when you run this.
Um I run the code.
Uh Let me show you what I right.
It's a bit slow. Um I just, you know, you can
check the topics after I just launched. I hope you
no one is finding it difficult to launch the environment.
Um uh Is it OK with everyone can, everyone can
launch the assessment environment?
Yes. Yes. Yes. It's a bit, it's a bit inconsistent with
me that sometimes the environment is empty.
So everything will launch because it will be empty.
Is that, is that the file being in the right place or no?
Uh Check out the answer uh the post from
seed that he wrote like a few week ago.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it is, you know, there is if you're
facing a problem, check what I answered,
you know, there is a uh you just need to re
uh rename one of the folders. OK. I
see. I see. Thank you so much, Professor in
James. Hello. Um I'm wondering about the frequency
on the control of the, not the control or the timer.
So if you reduce that is that is that will speed up the training or that's a good question.
I'm coming to that. Just give me a few minutes.
Um Yeah. Uh oh so
sorry, I want to uh clarify that. Uh So the
the the the assessment to so the uh so it is not an empty
environment. So it should be have some, for example,
like obstacles or goals which is set in the environment.
Is that correct? Because I also, when I load the environment,
I found that it is empty. So I want to check if I am on the right track.
Thank you. Yeah, no worries. OK. So we answered this already.
So it is, you know, you should see the same this one.
So one last thing. So where can I find the
correct one? I I just heard maybe some
source from the uh if you do you mind if you
can copy the name so I can find it or where can
I find? Uh the environment is provided in there is a
link to the environment. The only thing if you are using a,
the Azure VM that we provided, you don't need to do anything.
It's already there. You just need to launch it,
right? Only what you need to do is to launch.
So you do uh you know ro to
launch whatever you know, something like that.
OK. Oh yeah. Yeah. And also it needs to change
the name from QDN to the assess T for free
assessment. That one. Yeah. Yeah, I mean it,
oh, that's really strange for me. I think I may be off night I chat with
you about this because I tried to correct the name and I found this
and the robot. I may I check with you?
Yeah. OK. Uh Listen, I, I appreciate that each one of you might have a
like a very individual question. Let's try to keep um uh
you know, our questions to the where all of us can,
can, you know, can, can benefit from this if you have particular,
uh, you know, needs or just check the, the discussion is very
live. You can, yeah, I'm sure one of your,
your question. If it's not, it, it should be answered.
If it's not, then let, let, uh. Right.
Ok. Um,
ok, so if we want to, uh, to check the topics,
uh, we can check the topics here, for example,
um, I can check the topic
list as usual and then,
um you'll be able to see what is there. And of
course, you know, this is the C MD velocity is one of them.
And that's why we are uh uh subscribing
to um or actually publishing to uh
we are subscribing to the odometer and to the scan mainly.
And these are the only topics that we are going to utilize.
If you want to check the frequency of the topic,
all, what you need to do is to add these herds.
And then the topic, for example, the scan at the moment,
if I run this ro two topic herds, the scan,
it will give me, you know, how many times this is
being. The rate here is actually quite low because of the
training that we are providing, it should be around five.
This is the default one for the uh you know,
for the scan, right? So uh it depends on the,
you know what you're doing in your room,
in your machine. Usually it should be consistent with the odometer is actually faster.
However, um I mean, to make things easier also,
um this is not strictly necessarily
necessary, but what I have done is to also to make the
frequency of the dormitory, which is 30 per second,
not uh I converted it to five per second.
Uh All what you need to do is to go to
um to where the gazebo
is total about three gazebo and look at the
ones, look at the burger, the model SDF
and uh you can change this in.
Yeah. OK. With this TD
drive which is, you know, it will give us the dormitory,
this is, you know, I reduced it to five just so that
when I um checking, you know, the scans and
uh and whether my robot is running well,
I, I don't see a lot of the those uh you know,
uh odometer but it's, yeah, and that will help also to sync these two
together the scan and the odometer. OK. Mhm.
So uh let's go back here. Uh OK.
So let me interrupt this. Um
OK. Um So let's go back here.
So that's what we are having um
right. Um
The tolerance that is put is 0.6 you can put it 0.5.
I think the the requirement is 0.6 isn't it?
Or, or 0.5? I think it was 0.5
right? OK. And this is the goals, these
are not, you know, uh set already. So the pillar
here is 22, the coordinate for it. And the pillar here is minus two
minus two. Uh So these should not be changed.
Um OK. And then you know, I have these few the usual
uh a publisher to publish our commands ie to control the
robot and subscribers to read the scan and the O I hope
these are already clear. Uh I said the range now this is
might be also useful. Uh The range is set,
the max one is 3.5 m. So after this, the scanner
is going to be infinite uh
right? Um less than uh range, the minimum range,
which is, you know, you can play around with this if you want uh should be
around 0.3 or 0.25. It
depends. Um So, uh so
this is uh 3.5. OK. So anything beyond this is
going to be to be treated uh uh um
as infinite. And yeah, I think I provided it
with the, with the feet haven't died because this is what we use here.
Um OK. Um And then
this is where we want to uh create a client
to reset the world. I saw some of you were asking about this as well.
So um I mean, strictly speaking, you should be able to
find this, but I just improved it. It, I thought I
uh rather than you trying to do it.
OK. It's simply not some standard uh gazebo feature as far as I
understood from Googling and uh that's why we had a problem with it.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you have to do it. Uh You mean
programmatically it's not here. You can go and put
control, I think shift r it will reset the environment but you are
resetting the clock here as well. And this is not necessarily
good. But if you want to do it uh problematically,
you need to create an instance of this uh client called reset
the world. And it's one of those uh clients that are available
for you and then you uh I'll show you now how
to reset the word. OK. But we need to initialize it first uh
and wait for the um to acquire
this uh service. Um
I might, I might stop my uh you know, this
robot because it's not uh it's, it's very slow um
Because I'm running it in my local machine,
but you should run it in, in a zoo uh If you want,
right? Uh It's now responding again. Um
uh OK. Um
So this is to divide the world into a grid.
Uh Again, this is useful for the said uh
The uh there is a resolution that I'm
using which is uh 0.3 but you can play around with this,
make it 0.5 for example, meter ie the grid,
the cell size will be 0.5 by 0.5 or 0.3 by
0.3. Um I'm dividing also the space in terms
of the angular direction of the robot. Uh because you have to bear in
mind. Uh If you want to disc criticize this world,
you don't only need the 0.5 by 0.5. For example,
cells, also the robot direction is going to
to play an important role. And this is a state that you need to
recognize. So uh I'm dividing here as usual with
the, you know, the integer division uh the,
the cell, the dimension which is 24 by four.
This is what we have here. Four by four because you know,
roughly it is it is a little bit more but because this is two by,
this is 22 and this is minus two minus two,
That's OK, you know, I assume it's a four by four.
And uh um here, I'm getting how
many columns do we have by dividing this DXD by the resolution?
And one, how many rows same, how many orientations it
is the two pi because this is the full circle of the robot,
which direction of the robot and then dividing it by this resolution,
this is the resolution I'm dividing, you know,
effectively have eight different um
disc criticized angles that the robot can take.
This is what I'm assuming here. As we said,
it's just for, you know, consider it for testing.
Now the number of cells, this is the columns by the,
by the rows or columns. This is the grid size.
However, we said, you know, the number of states that we have the total is you need to
multiply this and see by the number of orientation.
So as as if I have eight grids on top of each other,
each time the robot will take a certain direction,
it will jump to this particular grid. This this will help us to
uh you know, uh conceptualize this uh the
world here. It's not only as we said, the position is
also the orientation and the number of actions I have
three. But as we said, you know, you can have more if you
want uh uh where you just jump, for
example, you turn um if if you have eight
orientation, you might uh consider turning abruptly 90
degrees or even taking smaller like, you know,
instead of doing a 60 degrees, you do 30 degrees,
it's up to you. Cur
yeah, just a quick question. Just to make clear all this deli stuff that you are
doing. It's only because you are trying to create model uh
like tabular model for this robot or its recommended way to do even
if we do it uh with approximation. No, I
would recommend that you do the vectorized one linear model,
not the grid. Uh That's what is required also in
your uh so in this case, we don't need all this descript
etcetera. But as I said, you know, we're building everything here,
almost the only thing that will change. I'll show you later.
It's just one uh function you see. Um
OK. Yeah, thank you. OK.
Um So then, um then the question is why
do we need this vat? This is for compatibility,
same for this NF And then every time we spin
or it makes sense to reset, but the reset is going to be done.
Anyway, any environment we need this particular function called reset.
Because our, all of our algorithms use this reset function to
reset the environment. So any environment that you want to create,
you must have this, if you want to change names,
change few things that you can't change the name for one of them is this
reset. The other one is the step. And um
I think there was uh one more. OK.
Um And the s of course, the S underscore
um right. So what do we have there now? Um in the
scan, let me start by the scan in this scan function here.
Uh I'm taking the, this is a subscriber.
This is the function that I passed up for the subscriber uh
underscore the S small letter. Uh
I think uh yeah. Um
So we pass this scan function to the subscriber
and we have this is the data that is being passed to it
by the subscriber uh by the publisher. You know,
when we publish the subscriber will, will,
will catch these scans and uh it will have them here.
Um This is done for us. We don't need to do this part.
This is the, you know, the good thing about publish,
subscribe and now I'm converting them into an N pr A,
then if it is infinite, this is when the,
the range becomes like, you know, above 3.5 I'm curbing them
all to 3.5 right? Because I don't want to deal with infinite
scans. This is a hustle for us. So I set
them to um the maximum range range, which is 3.5.
Anything beyond that? The scanner doesn't recognize the,
you know whether it is four or 5 m, everything is infinite for it
after the 3.5.
OK? And this the both is just for us to read and see
what's going on. Uh You can turn this off.
I mean, it is by default, it's false up in the uh
in our function. Uh The the dormitory
is another subscriber. This will uh I'm
reading into my class here. The X would be the position,
the X position Y will be the right position of the robot.
Uh It's given by the dormitory and theta is the
orientation. However, I have a function which
will give me uh this is in because this orientation is in
and it's really hard for you to, you know,
to understand what's going on there. Um It's far easier for us to
deal with oiler um um
uh angles. So uh hence I'm con
I'm providing you with this as well. I know that this is one of the things that you
might want to know. And so I provided you with this
utility, the, your uh basically we're taking the arc tangent
of the uh readings of the orientation. And you know,
to get the, the, the Y is the, because, you know,
we are, we are having our robot on, on a to these
flat surface, there is no uh changes in
the, you know, in the other angle. So, you know,
when we turn the robot in place, we are changing the role,
the other ones, the role and other angles are not being changed.
And OK. Uh the
beach and the road. Um I think that's it,
you know, I'm just now converting it into this array just for
reading. To be honest, you can place this inside the verbose because we don't utilize
this. I'm already always utilizing the X directly,
the Y and the theta. So there are few things which you can change yourself,
don't feel like, you know, this has to be in this way.
However, there are things which are very subtle.
Uh you know, if you change them, you know,
the, the, the, the the robot might not work well.
OK. Um
The goal is the angular distance between the uh the robot
and one of the goals, usually I use the,
of course, we, you know, the nearest goal And this concept is important
to understand it. Um What we're doing
here is to obtain the coordinates of the goal
that I'm passing here through. And then uh
and then these coordinates and the XY are the coordinates of the
robot. So X go, Y go are the coordinates of the goal
Xyx and Y are the coordinates of the robot.
And then we again, we doing the arc tangent because that will give us
the angle in radiant and then you can
convert it. And usually, you know, I'm adding two P so that
we don't have pi plus pi it's your choice.
You can do either. And I'm rounding it, which is,
I know that it's not, but we should round
only towards the end where we do the differences.
But uh in order to make it easier for me to test
and so on, I rounding here returning around one,
but you again, you can, you can choose elect not to.
This is the Euclidean distance. Um This goal
is the, is the distance between the robot and the nearest goal.
For example, this one here, uh when it's in this,
in this upper uh uh half, if it's in the lower
half, uh it depends, of course, it depends on the quarter
anyway, if it's here, for example, this will be the goal.
If it's up, this one will be the goal. Um So the
distances I'm try, I'm starting them as infinite and then um
calculating the distance as usual, the X and the Y subtract them and
then square the differences and
add them up is the US clon and then taking the minimum one and then
obtaining the goal of the minimum distance,
which is the nearest goal. This is what we have here.
And then uh I'm returning the distance to this
after this is to take the square root of it.
Uh part of 0.5 will square root the distance because it's already
squared and then returning all near score.
The at goal is another uh utility function that
is also useful. Uh It will tell you or tell us uh
which, whether the robot is actually reached the goal within this tolerance,
the 0.6 tolerance. So uh again,
going through the different goals and then checking if the
X is less or equal this, the gold plus minus
tolerance and the Y is the same, then uh
you know, it is, it is considered uh you know,
we are reaching the, we reach the goal, this is to terminate our episode.
Otherwise, you know, we don't know uh you must have the
end obviously because if you do the all that means that if the robot reached here,
for example, it will terminate because it is,
you know, it has almost the same. Uh I
think it's the x axis is here, by the way,
it's vertical, you can see it and the Y axis is,
is is horizontal in this case, in the environment.
OK. Um And if we are at goal, we just indicate this always,
regardless whether it is variable is set to true or not because we
want to know whether we reach the goal, OK?
At all. Uh It's, it will tell us if we have hit a wall or the
robot hits a wall and that by checking, taking the
minimum of the range on the left and the right,
uh I think it was a who asked me about the,
you know, uh the scans. Um this term
here, it will check the scan on the left and on the right.
Uh but not necessarily the front and you can
change here. The range, the range here is four,
but really, you can take 10, you can take uh whatever you find
suitable um for you. Uh If you add more,
it's going to be more sensitive and that can be useful or not.
Depends, for example, if you know, if you have the robot,
you know, a world behind the robot is not that problematic,
but if it is in front, then it is, you know,
it needs to check it earlier anyway. So
this will tell us if it's at all and hence,
it will allow us to reset the environment.
No, the reward function is uh
it will take, take the distance to go to the uh so
Euclidean distance and the angular distance.
And then uh we'll check if, if the robot is at goal
or at wall or the action is straightforward or
otherwise. OK. And then it will tell us the type,
this is similar to what we've done for the uh do you remember which,
which environment
anyone can tell me?
Come on with
the mountain car that, sorry,
the mountain car environment, a mountain car.
Um This is similar
to uh the cliff edge. If you look
at the cliff edge in the MD P uh lesson,
we've done something similar to this one anyway.
So uh the, the the wall is like the one the falling off
the edge of the cliff. And that goal will tell us,
you know, to, to terminate obviously. And uh you know,
taking the distance between the two angles,
robot angle and the uh and the robot
goal angle, you know, these are two different
angles and this difference will tell us this angle of
distance. Uh I was referring to X to the goal as the angle of
distance. I think I said this is the goal uh
orientation, robot goal orientation, right?
So it's like drawing a line, direct line between the robot and the
goal. And uh what would be the angle of this with respect
to the uh you know, to a fixed reference.
So this is the theta goal when we take the difference between them,
that will be the angular distance between the orientation of the robot and the one where is
the goal and the orientation of the or where the goal the robot
needs to head towards the goal. OK. So the difference,
if the goal, for example, you can see the robot going up here,
which is so the angular distance now between the the direction of the
robot is going up and this goal would be about maybe 60 degrees,
right? And we want to obtain this here. So uh the maybe
the theta here of the robot when it's heading up,
it will be zero because this is the difference is a vertical.
Uh So this is now zero, the theta of the robot is zero and
the the the the of the goal relative to the position of
the robot about here, it's about 60 degrees and the difference would be
60 if the robot is heading, for example,
this way it is here for here, for example,
then it will be 90 degrees and so on. Uh OK,
if it's going horizontally like that
anyway, this will tell us, tell us the distance,
the angular distance, it's a well known concept check it.
Um what is an an distance if you're not familiar with it?
And if it is, if the goal is this lowered one,
the this is goal zero and this is gold one.
If it's one, then I'm subtracting pi because you know of the orientation of the goal
is um is the uh is mainly in the negative here.
And so uh I needed to subtract pi and then I'm rounding
the this and taking the absolute also again um
of this uh the distance. OK. So why are
we doing that? Because we want, you know,
the orientation and the distance to the goal to participate in rewarding
the robot to incent it to reach the goal.
Um This is, this is a,
a kind of relaxation of the requirement of,
you know, having to reach the goal without only from a minimal
signal, which is for example, to provide always minus one as a signal that can
work, it will take longer, much longer to uh uh
to uh to train. And hence, I, you know, I want you
to uh have a good time training your robots.
And then uh that will, that should help
here is just printing and this is where we want to check if the type
is one, meaning that the robot hit a wall,
then we are resetting, right? We set the environment,
we already uh know from this, what would be the reward
because I obtained it here, right?
And uh that we usually we penalize, for example,
the uh the the robot when it hits the goal by minus
100 or something like that. And we reward the robot if it is at the goal
by plus 100 or plus 10, whatever, you know,
you should experiment with these things.
OK? And then we're returning the reward the final,
which is the total sum including the distance and whether the
reward, whether the robot, the robot hit a wall or
reached a goal plus the distance, right?
Uh Here, I'm saying if, if the type is nonzero,
it means it, it didn't hit a wall then penalize otherwise.
Uh sorry. Uh I'm saying here, if the, if
the type is nonzero, ie if the robot didn't reach the goal,
then penalize it. Otherwise, there is no need to penalize.
And you know, even if the this way, even if the robot hits the wall
near the goal, then that's OK. It doesn't,
you know it will, it will help also to speed up your uh your train
and returning these two, these three things,
the reward, the type, if it's zero or not,
you reach the goal or not, this is like done.
OK? This is, it means it, we're done if type is zero,
if the S type is one means we hit the robot hit,
hit a goal, a wall. OK? And
this is now the state representation that we talked about.
Uh you need later to change this into something vectorized.
This one is returning just a, an index of the current grid with
and with the orientation, the the space is quite big
because we have, you know, divided the grid four by four into
those 0.3 by 0.3 cells uh plus
stand by eight orientations. But uh you can,
you know, you can see that it's, it's quite big space.
But uh you know, the robot can, can learn to an extent you have to bear in mind
that uh also the uh the
X and the Y can be not uh accurate of the
robot. Um OK. Now, for the
control to stabilize, you know, our robot,
um I'm using a loop for the spin. Uh
I'm not using the spin, I'm using the spin one because this is this is will
be uh better. It will provide us with the more
control and allow us just allow the um uh the
publisher to publish spin one ie execute the current
um you know, whatever is in the publish in the publisher
and then return, I'm doing it several times because that will provide the
stability and will flush our if there is anything
not executed yet and will help to uh obtain those also
lots of readings, not just uh have one point of
failure. You know this concept in engineering one point of failure if,
if I have just once and one, I spin once and I,
I don't, I didn't get the uh the
dormitory for some reason for due to the delay or the,
you know, the hardware is having problem to cope with this many uh
cycles as well as when same with
the scan. Then that would be problematic.
I want a more reliable signal that will come from the sensors and
this spinning more than once will provide this stability.
OK. So the step um you know, this is not strictly necessary to have a
as 11 is this forward moving forward
and you can have whatever you want as the default,
it makes sense to have the forward as the default.
Uh I'm also providing this backwards. But as you might have noticed,
I'm assuming that we have only three actions because really,
you know, if you remember with the uh with the,
with the number of uh choosing an action will be always
positive, the index of an action. So it's either 01 or two.
This minus one is for us to check things.
For example, when we were, if you want to test for the angles,
if you want just not to turn, you just move forward or backward and see the
effect of that, you can, you can do that,
that uh that utility is here for you, but it will not be
utilized the A minus one. It will not be utilized by any of our
algorithms RL algorithms. All of them, they utilize 01 or two or
more. If you have, if you want more, you can provide more in the positive
range. And here we are spinning uh N
number of times this self N is don't confuse this with
the number of, you know, with the ntep salsa.
For example, we are dealing here with the environment,
not with an RL algorithm and it should not be,
you know, confusing. But anyway, and here is the number of spins that we are doing
and it's a hyper parameter. Uh It's set around
3028 something like that. Uh You can play around with this to
make it you, you know your own way. Uh We're
spinning more than uh if we are moving forward than when we are spinning
when we are turning because turning needs to be,
it's a more uh nuanced. It needs to be a little bit more
careful when we are turning. Not just to be to overturn if you like.
Um OK. And then I'm calling the reward function to
return our reward and whether we've done or not.
And the this is not used but it's there for you if you want to utilize it.
And then at the end, we are returning the self ss and
reward and done. Actually, I might have said this is needed.
I don't think you need this underscore it will be
as long as it is here. You calling it something consistent.
I think you you'd be OK. But for consistency with other,
you know, our coverage, we use this as underscore to
represent obtaining a state.
OK. Stop obviously will stop the robot. There
is an important thing here which is I'm calling stop every time I'm doing an
action, I'm calling a stop after it and the stop will do
also a number of spins here, however, it is far less as I'm dividing by
eight here over N and that's to, uh
yeah, that's to make um that to stop.
So to have a well defined, you know, actions and hence well
defined behavior you see here that, you know,
it's not, you can, you can see that there is a little bit of stops,
but it's really smooth because, you know,
I tried to make it as smooth as possible with these settings of the end and the rest
of it and the frequency, frequency plays an important role as well.
Um But we are stopping after each action so that,
you know, if you don't, the robot will keep moving because you publish something
and the topic as long as this, you know,
this um um the robot will
see that it is certain speed it, whenever you spin,
it will keep doing it. You might argue that you don't need it.
It's OK. Try and see whatever produce I provided
here this for you to experiment with. And you know,
there, there might be some redundancies that you might get away by
removing them. So, you know, experiment uh don't just
uh you know, keep this as is uh for the reset,
this is where we are resetting the environment.
Um I could have done just one here, right.
OK. This, this is, this is the call here and that will work.
But uh if you see that there might be some,
you know, something in the queue of the robot that uh that needed to
be executed. And this delay in the hardware can
cause problems. For example, if you reset,
you see if you reset one, sometimes you see the robot moved,
you know, already due to other previous
episodes or previous actions that are in the queue and
hence, we needed to flush them. So I'm resetting ones,
of course, you can remove this for loop or experiment with more
uh stuff. Uh And then I'm moving
slightly this speed 0.001 just also to make sure
that, you know, we are flushing anything and we are getting an
um an up to date odometer and scan because this is
another problem. So the the the hardware reading of the
scan will be delayed and hence it is it has the,
the scan of the previous reading. This can cause the robot for example
to be uh to uh to remember it's
reading near the uh the uh the goal. And as
you see that it's just uh you have a very
short episodes and these are actually bugs because of the
delays in the sensors. And this one here is uh four loop
as well as resetting again after it, make sure that we don't get this
artifact or problem or bug.
Uh John Hi. Um I saw in other
tutorials that people who, who have done similar things that they
pause in the physics, then reset the environment and then unpause the physics
again. So to avoid those. Um, yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, you can, you can try this as well.
Of course, it's not the only one I think.
I, uh, yeah, I said there are, there might be some other,
other ways to do it but, uh, um, I think that that
h is, is less uh technical, um,
easier to do and, uh, you know, can get us by.
Um But yeah, by all means you can try other things as well.
Bear in mind that in reality, you know, to be honest with you,
uh if you have a, a real robot, you will not be able to do this.
You have to uh either you just shut down,
for example, the whole robot which is not preferred,
of course, it will take long. Uh So this hack might work
better for real robots. Of course, there are ways
which, you know, some sensors, if you look at the,
the um you know, they provided that they provide a way mechanism to flush the
sensor so you can call them directly. But that means that we have to dig deeper into the
hardware. And um yeah, OK. You know, if
you are uh if you dealt with the robot for a long time and
robotics, then yeah, you'd be able. But for the kind of knowledge that we have this is I
think, you know, and a good, good utility?
Mm. Well, yeah, thank you for uh for pointing this out.
Uh OK. And this render is for
compatibility. So we needed two things for compatibility,
the V I think V max and this uh render.
OK. Uh Any question?
Oh, I have uh questions. Uh May you go up a little bit
about the scan and part and the
orient part? Yeah. Ok.
But uh I want to see the code. Yeah,
because uh for the orient oriental dot Y
dot uh something, is it the same as the,
the function of approaches? Is I, I don't remember it.
Is the Odon 0.0 dot Y, are they the same or are
they different? Actually the o dome? The,
the Odom dot Y is what? Sorry? Uh Oh
yeah, I, I mean the uh old on dot Is uh
is it the same as old or en dot as those kind of things
or are they two different things? Uh I'm obtaining the
odometer reading in every uh you know, a
few seconds according to the frequency. So um
as you can see it, you know, at least we should get,
get, I mean, the idea is about five times a second to obtain
the odometer reading. And the X self dot X would obtain,
we have the X coordinate for the robot from the odometer.
The Y, the self dot Y also the uh the
odometer or the, the position, the Y position of the robot also from the
dormitory uh as well as the THETA, but theta is converted to,
you know, to RADI. I hope I answered your question,
James. Hello. Um
So I'm at the point where I'm working on the second model and is it too soon to
jump into that or are we sort of? No, no,
no, we will, we will, I will go into connecting this environment with one of
our uh you know, algorithms in in a second.
Just give me uh you know, a few. But specifically as I've already done that because
I've done the first model but the um specifically for like the neural network stuff,
I'm wondering if we're going to cover that,
right? Um No, the neural network,
but it's, it's already there in the lessons.
All what you need to just is to uh um you
know, well, let's just start on my question because it says to use the neural network architecture with a
policy gradient model. But from what I can tell it,
that has not been done in the lessons because all the policy gradient stuff is using the um
MD P architecture. And then there's a yes EQN on the on the new network.
So yeah, I mean, that's right. That's why,
you know, we needed like something that not because otherwise
everything is done, you know, in the, in the code that we provided.
The only thing that you need to take into account with that if you look at the Q learning,
for example, the neural network Q learning that we provided.
Uh the difference is that you need similar network for the V function.
You have the Q network, all you need, you know,
you can implement an actor critic and you can look at the actor critic
implementation in, in the linear model. All the,
all what you need to do is to define a new neural network for the D
function and then add them to the Q uh network that
you have already. And that's it. Um So OK,
I'll give that a go. Um So in the, in the,
in the brief, it says to not write any of our own algorithms,
but um we'd have to, we'd have to pour in some of the
actor critic code to be able to get that working or would that to
do that? Right. That's a good question. So uh what you can do
is to inherit from this uh the code that we provided.
Let me, I think my uh environment maybe have
collapsed here and I have to stop it. Uh
OK. Uh No, actually it did. It didn't but uh
um I might have pressed a lot of
buttons when I was trying to uh move around.
OK. Um I think I'm going to force it to quit.
It doesn't matter. And hopefully we will see something uh
down there. It's not scrolling.
OK. Let's force it to quit,
right? Did you see this, you know, it is uh
still running. Um OK.
Uh That's the other thing OK. If this happened to
you, uh For example, your robot
has uh or training stopped.
And actually this is not uh this was not
the uh I was running to the visual studio
uh two instances.
Mhm
So we were talking about uh that
one, right? So you have in the MRP here,
you have already the implementation for the the function,
right? It's there for you, you have them.
And yeah, I guess my question is specifically about the algorithm that
yeah, so uh you can add to them, you can just inherit from them.
That's fine. Yeah. So you can uh inherit from this uh
class or from any want
and that should be fine. By the way, uh You reminded me
now, our code is already integrated as we know and you
can, you know, import from the notebooks and so on.
But uh you know, in the interest of uh being able
to debug better and someone of you were asking me about the intuition as well.
Uh So what I did is to uh isolate the code that you
need in a few uh dot P
um files. And uh
these will contain all the, you know, the algorithms that you might
want to use. Uh RL will have the uh the one that
is not vectorized. It's just the tabula algorithms in the
RL. Uh the nonlinear function approximation in the
RLV. And uh sorry, the linear, not the linear
um um algorithms RL
algorithms in RLV. And the nonlinear is in the RL and
N from neural network. And you can see, you know,
uh it's already, it's the same code. I haven't
changed a line. I just all this will be
published today. Yes. OK. Cool. Thank you.
No problem. So if you are utilizing the
uh you know the Jupiter notebooks and you are happy with them,
that's fine. If you want to utilize these,
uh it's also OK. And fine. This will allow you to debug
better, you know, because it will show you where is the problem?
Exactly. While with the Jupiter notebooks,
it's great for learning. But then when you start to debug,
um you know, it has its own
issues. OK? Uh I wanted to show you also there is a
utility for us to uh also
to, I think it's running still this um
Anyway, uh maybe not, there is a utility for us
to resume training. So assume that this is,
you know, collapse and it stopped, right?
Um So what do we do? Well, that's not a problem.
You don't need to repeat the whole uh experiment.
Please don't do this because that will be like,
you know, um very frustrating or what you need to do is to
rerun, for example, re rerun, I'll just do it in a moment and then
you can presume So say I said here, you know,
three episodes and or 100 episodes doesn't matter.
And then I want to resume or extent you just set the same
object um salsa or instance of a salsa, uh you set the
interact into resume equal two and then it will resume if there are still
episodes to be run. If you want to extend,
for example, here from three, when we run resume,
it will not do anything else because it reached the,
you know, the three here. If you want to run more,
then I can set the episode to 10. And
uh and then uh no,
it will work. It will work and then you again,
you see. Ok. So let's see. Um
So I I'm not necessarily confined by this.
I can as long as Yeah. Ok. So uh if it's crashed
completely, this is a good point. Uh If it's crashed completely,
that's um that's something else if you, if you crash
because you know, uh that will
remove the, the memory. Um But uh this
is where you want. If you want to uh provide,
for example, save your salsa pickles or
something else. Can you just every now and then uh save
the object into some file. It's your choice
how you do it and then you can upload it again.
Once you upload it, you can receive, right?
I haven't provided this utility, but uh it should be fine.
It should be straightforward just to check if you are not familiar with this,
check on the internet, how to store things.
Um Also realizing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Good, good, good stuff. I'm, I'm sure you're savvy,
you know, you, you're doing this module,
it's, you know, OK. Anyway,
so um
let's see if it is uh
right. OK. Now, uh the other thing that I want to uh so
here I, instead of importing from uh this approximate control,
I'm importing directly from RLV everything.
And then, you know, this is the environment,
the V environment as usual. Uh I'm just re implementing
the S in a way that I'm just uh obtaining the scans,
you can do whatever I'm just doing some uh kind of hot encoding,
but feel free to expand the things and give me,
you know what you experimented with and uh you know,
post it, you know, when you submit
your, your work and then you run some other algorithm and Salsa Lamda
or other algorithm. And similarly, you do
uh as we did here for the RNN for the RLNN.
Um I created some kind of uh
com to D but you don't need necessarily,
you know, convolution neural networks. If you are not familiar with them,
don't feel obliged to use them, use whatever you're comfortable with.
For example, you can use any shallow neural network,
I don't mind. OK? Because you, you are using a scan the
input, this the, you know the state input would
be the same. It is the sky, let's face it do
not enter, do not provide the dormitory.
That will be a cheating basically. OK. No dormitory into the
state, we utilize them in the reward that's fine but
not in the state. Um And these sensors, you know
the scanner sensors, they will be fed into instead of a
simple multiplication with the with the like in the uh in
the linear models in the nonlinear, we feed them
into a neural network. But if the concept is the same really,
OK. Um there's here, there's weight loading and there's
saving weight for you. So I'm already deal with this utility.
But again, you know, it's up to you, you can then reload them again
if you are training with the neural network.
Um OK. Uh The batch and everything is there,
this is the code that we already have in the notebooks.
OK? I just copied them and with the MD
P, I'm providing you the extra cue and uh really,
you know, uh Q underscore is implemented here.
Um My storage
is also implemented for you don't really need to
worry about it. And the V here. So this is the V implementation and this
is V underscore and underscore these are important parts.
Um So yeah, you can then run whatever. For example,
the DQM um algorithm is
as you can see in front of you, uh you could uh take
inspiration from this and just train a V
function similarly, you know, we are
obtaining here the badge. So it's already here for you.
So the infrastructure is there for you. All you need to do is just to update,
this is the update for the queues and the V will be similar.
Just think about it, how to do it. Um
ok. Um I hope that's helpful that
should uh scaffold everything that you
uh you might come across. Well, you know,
almost everything there is the double DQ and it's same,
same idea similar. Uh The update is a bit different
and you can have a look at the differences between them.
And here we are taking max, you know, the
first for all of them. Here we are just uh taking first
the Macs and then providing this through as,
as an index for the Q. So instead of taking the Macs directly,
we are obtaining the max from the, via the SN.
And that, that, that's the idea of double QQN because it's going
to reduce the uh it will,
you know, it will do the decoupling and reduce the uh
the bias and we already reduced the,
the, the variance by utilizing the Q, the,
the two network already in the DQN.
OK. Uh I'm going to stop talking and if you
want uh to ask questions, please do ask questions,
no questions.
Um So uh
how much of the code you can, you can change?
I mean, if you, if you are changing uh the environment,
that's fine. Uh what I want from you is to minimize the changes
that you're doing unless it is necessary.
So you inherit from, as long as you're inheriting from this,
uh one of the classes that we provided here,
particularly I, you know, did uh the DQN
here, then you'll be fine
inherit from this and provide your own code.
Um That's fine if you want to inherit from the
PG directly, uh then
justify why. And uh
it should be similar to the functionality here.
So particularly the update should be straightforward,
not convoluted, uh you know,
delving deeper into the neural network and how they,
they uh they operate because that will be um
that would be difficult for, you know, for marking as well.
So try to um OK,
sorry. Um If I may ask a question here. So this is
about the um notebooks that were provided.
And uh so I believe there were some updates and I'm
sometimes confused about which notebooks have been updated and what you're showing now,
whether that is actually in the version that I downloaded.
And so would it be possible that this is indicated somehow what has
been updated? And when uh
yes, I mean, the the code has not been updated except maybe for
uh the, I think it was the adding the
videos to the uh OK.
It's just I understood uh oh, maybe my understanding is incorrect.
Um that lesson 16 the lesson
16 notebook has been extended. What what you just showed
before? Has that been provided? Right?
So uh lesson 16 that I was showing is
an extra help for you to address the uh you know the
the assessment we provided already with you with the lesson 16.
This is to help you. Yes, I understand this.
It's just I haven't seen that code in that way before I
believe. May maybe I'm mistaken. It might be the case.
Yes, you're right. This is, this code is as I said,
I'm you with this code as a kind of help because this is to
be honest. OK? I don't want to say words that is going to uh you know
um let me put it this way. I'm mhm
You were supposed to do the this part of this code by yourself but
as a scaffolding and to help you, I provided this.
OK. OK. And
uh yeah. OK. Uh No problem. Can you, I'm
not reading uh uh If the question is, I think the
question is whether or not the new version of 16 has been uploaded and not yet.
Uh If this is the question, it's not yet,
I'm going to upload it uh soon uh
so that, you know, you can either use it or take inspiration,
it's up to you. Um So yeah,
no problem. Um No worries at all um in
the in the consideration of um of marking,
will there be any way given to, to if people have worked this stuff out themselves or
is it just, of course, you know,
there will be some uh
uh OK, I mean, there is, there is some requirements
if you've done it yourself. I think that is personally,
I think that is the most rewarding experience of,
of, you know, of this uh one of the most rewarding experiences in the module.
Uh I will look into uh the
different um implementation of the environment regardless.
So you don't necessarily have to follow what,
what I provided. And certainly I appreciate good code and nice code
which has been done differently. So if you've done this well done,
um that will be an added credit to your,
to your project. But if you don't then don't feel,
you know, you're behind, you're not, you,
you know, you can now connect to your robot and do uh stuff
that uh possibly was a little bit uh harder before to,
to, to, to do.
So who's uh OK. Do, do you have other questions,
you know, was it clear for you what we have covered?
Is it um um is it
OK? Is it, is it helpful? I've got a question.
Um Yeah, I think this is definitely very useful just to,
to manage expectations. There's some of us that potentially haven't come from ross development
backgrounds, neural networks, all of that stuff could be quite new.
But this bridges that gap quite a bit. Um My question is around
training times realistically, what is a ballpark figure that we should be expecting?
And this might be an answer in the discussion forum.
But what is a realistic training time expectation for these?
Um It really varies between the hardware,
I couldn't tell. And the, you know, the implementation,
for example, if I change this and a little bit,
the, you know, the robot might run slower or faster if you change your
frequency, the same, um, all of that will add up.
And, um, really you can't put AAA
number and of course, the hardware, as maybe I mentioned before
using the virtual machines, um, let's say a max time just so we can forecast
this into the kind of assessment time I would say.
Ok. Um, I think you
should, it should train in a few hours, you know,
no more. Uh, but you might want, you might spend a lot of hour
until you reach this stage of, you know,
everything is set up. Everything is tuned.
It's quite nuance. You can think that is between people.
But once you reach this stage, maybe, you know,
I would say reasonable four hours, it should,
you know, be OK, four hours. Yeah.
Ok.
Well, great, excellent Scott. That's very,
very good. Uh, pleased to hear that. Uh,
ah, you can run headless if you want and
the issue with the headless is once you're not watching it
can be actually a bit uh faster uh but not
necessarily a lot faster. I tried it before you tell me,
it depends between people. So uh you can,
you can set this um flag on uh on the robot on
the gazebo not to show the environment and that should save you a little bit
of um uh you know, compute time uh and
may help you also not to crash. I'm
yet to see like a strong evidence for it.
Maybe it's due to gazebo implementation and I used earlier version
of ubuntu so that can that convey?
Um Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It, it should be reasonable.
Yes. Uh If you don't have to show this, but I think I suspect that
what Gazebo is doing is something like it's doing it anyway and it
doesn't show it on the screen. Um Certainly there is another
issue with the headless, which is, I don't think it's a problem
for us because uh we are not using, we're not using the camera.
But if you're using the camera, if you're on headless,
you will get black images usually unless this has been fixed with the
recent gazebo implementation. Um Yeah. OK.
Uh que other questions I think we have and Alan,
yes, for the video. Do you want us to, do you want to see the actual robot hitting the
target or just whilst it's training? Uh Both please.
That's a good question. Thank you for asking this,
Alan, uh I would want you to show me like,
you know, uh early uh early episodes, middle episodes,
end of the episode, not necessarily like,
you know, talking for 10 minutes each, no,
just a few seconds for the first few episodes,
middle episodes, end of the episode showing the also maybe the environment
and uh then uh running it after training
and that should be it, that would provide strong evidence also that
you actually have trained. And you know,
the code is, is is running. Please also bear in mind that,
that I remember now I would need to be able to run the
code in my machine because otherwise I wouldn't know what he did.
So that's also part of the idea of having to use,
you know, the code that we provided. So I need to uh uh either
um import the RL or RLV or RLNN or
the, you know, the, the notebooks and then I'll be able to
run your code. Not necessarily, I might not train to the end,
but I just want to know, have this feeling of,
you know, what uh what you and
if there is something extra that you did,
for example, if you want to explain to me,
I inherited the, you know, the, this class and then I changed
this bit or I added this functionality or,
you know, and, and, and so on, but don't make your video long.
It's really problematic for us. Because that will delay
greatly the, you know, the marking and the lease of the month
because you know, it adds up, you know, imagine that I
some of you, for example, with the previous modules,
they, they submitted like, you know, a 10 minute video,
a 20 minutes video and that's really, you know,
uh problematic. So please try to do maximum two minutes,
you know, video and that would be, you know.
Mhm.
OK. No problem. Uh Yasin, please go ahead.
Yeah, first. Yeah, 1st, 1st I apologize if my question would look
like um I, I'm just making sure because maybe it's my paranoia or
something. But uh the, the example of what we did
right here is having the, the grade over the wallet
that we have. But for, for the project in and
practically we won't use a grid like this,
right? It's, it's for applying our algorithms.
We are not going to um use a grid for this word.
It's just for being compatible with Sara and those exams.
Am I getting this right? Uh
Well, yes and no, because you,
we needed the, the, the grid for the salsa
when you import from the RL, the SAS A is
expecting indices for the states. But once you move
into um the,
so the R the RLV, then no, you can just
directly utilize, look what I've done here.
That's why I'm I repeated this, you know,
the same environment. I only just re implemented the s
and that's all, you know, it's the same.
All the functionality is regardless the rewards,
the, at all, at goal, the
difference, uh the angular distance, the distance,
the y, the everything is the same except for this one
function, which is, if you change it, that's it.
Yeah, we totally makes sense. Now, I was making sure I get
it right. Yeah, no problem. Once you've changed it,
you can now create an instance of this environment.
The is the, you know, uh environment and then I
passed it through this salam and it should work fine.
Be mindful this Mac T in the current implementation of the
uh of the Monte Carlo. Uh
Currently
it's um
uh where is it? Stop.
Yeah. Stop. Ep Correct. Yeah. Uh Is it stop?
Ep Yeah. In here. Uh You will uh
it, it only work if we are storing the
um you know, the trajectories. If you want to change that you can just simply if you
want for the sake of the uh of this implementation,
just remove it and then it will work so that,
you know, you're not running for a long time.
So because each episode take each episode,
taking 2000 steps for this, it will be, you know,
it will be a killer that will play also against your time.
So uh maybe I'd say 3050 max T
uh because also if you put it as a small number,
your robot might not learn quickly because the episode is,
you know, interrupted. So, you know, it's up to you,
you play around with this. Ok. Uh, play around with this.
Uh, you need to understand the, the code also.
Also before I forget, um, in the,
um, I'm not watching the, uh, the chat, I'll
just check in the, otherwise I'm trying to answer them there.
Thanks. Thanks a lot. So, um, in, in, in the,
you know, in the Monte Carlo, uh we provided it with uh
where is it? Yeah, actually in the interact uh
if in the drug there is a um
an exception like you know, a try catch,
but it's commented out and that can be useful.
Uh So that you're not crashing your uh you know,
your environment. So I would say uh com this in
and utilize it. Of course, you need to push everything uh
you know, uh forward to be able to, to utilize it.
But otherwise this, I think will be also very
helpful. Um
Yeah, it depends, see, you know, what, what fits you.
What did they do?
Yeah. OK.
My machine is a bit uh Not
OK. So that's it. Uh This is now committed in and then you'll be
able to, if, if your, if your algorithm stop for some reason,
you know, uh it doesn't crash and you lose everything
before, particularly if you're saving, you know,
using serialization or something else, then
you um you're not losing what you've trained so far also,
this can play. So uh you know, uh play around with this a little bit.
Uh try to make, you know, your, your setting resilience so that
if crash happened, it might uh then uh you know,
you are guarded against. OK. Um Questions
in the chat or everything is fine.
Uh uh uh You should check them out. Um
Is Q learning a policy gradient method?
Anyone? It's not.
No, it's not why it's a value base to my knowledge.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So thank you for the question.
It's it might be actually a little bit
sometimes unclear. The we do
adjust um policy
um parameters. WS for example, which is very similar to
what we do for the for the Q learning. And I appreciate that it might be a little
bit unclear why. But you know, with, with the,
with the policy gradient, we directly approximate the policy itself,
not the Q value. OK. Although we might utilize,
for example, we utilize the V values or the state values
tabular or non tabular, right? But we, we are not
confined by the Q value because the Q values remember they are the
expected, they are the expected returns or the and the returns
are the sum of the rewards discounted. So they
must, you know, get the rewards approximated,
approximated, you know, fine like, you know,
solidly to be able to, to, to reach a policy with the policy
grading methods, we don't need this, we can,
you know, for example, the, the W might get range of
values that they are freer. If you, if you like in this sense,
they are more free to take um a a a AAA
wide range of values rather than when we
confined them to the key values, right? So that's one
advantage of the policy gradient methods and hence they become
more resilient, more practical, especially for you know,
uh for practical problems. So yeah, Q learning is
a an action value function and it's an action value.
Uh Sorry, Q is an actual value function.
And Q learning is an action value algorithm uh
while a a critic um is, is a policy gradient
method and that can be found, for example,
uh I think he,
I don't know why I'm using my virtual machine to show you this.
I could have gone down to the uh to uh
come on and start scrolling, right?
Yeah, let me show you something else.
Um A
mass,
all right, because the, the director machine is not
responding actually,
you can see this right.
I just uh OK. I,
I like to see
that's foster. So that's the active critic.
OK. So you can see here that updating according to the delta to the
delta, which is the TD arrow W as well as the
W capital, which is this is the way the charm
of the actor critic comes. OK. We usually update the cue
accordingly similarly but not using this one minus pi,
I mean this is mainly the difference as well as this uh gamma to the
power of some tea. And so yeah,
so we do both updates at the same time, the W small letter and W capital
letter. This is this one represent the V function.
So this is the V function and this is,
you know, crudely, it's not the Q function but it's similar to Q
function, you call it the actor. And it's,
you can think about it. The, the um the dimension of W is
the same when we were doing the Q learning,
right? Of capital W it's the same of the Q but it's different flavor if you
want or, and it's not confined by that.
Uh you know, OK. So that's why I was, when
I was asked about the nonlinear, you know,
it's very similar, the, the update you just need to take into account.
These will be these terms we already provided this,
you might just want to do this bit here anyway.
Um Yeah,
not that, you know, also also not that this
updating W affect, affect also the delta here
because the vs utilize the W small
which then in turn, we are using this delta,
the TD function TD error in the update of this capital
W. So this is another part of the uh
actor critic. OK. Uh Another question,
hi, Professor I have a question about. So I was reading
the assessment um So marking criteria
and it says there that the, so we should use,
we, we should correctly use odometer and laser scans as input.
But from, from what you you mentioned. So uh
basically, I'm trying to understand if, if I
have, if I choose to use a vectorized environment where I would just have a feature
vector, then this should only include laser scans,
not both, not both. Yes. Yes. Otherwise,
I mean, yes, yes. You want to start by cheating,
for example, by
utilizing the odometer for the robot to train quickly and see if you know you're setting
everything is fine, you know, it's for you to do,
right? You might like to do so and see, you know how
accurate it is in the end. But uh once you want to,
the things that you're submitting the results that you're submitting,
it should not, it should only obtain, you know,
contain this, the scan and the odometer is used in the reward.
That's fine without it being used in the state.
All right, good. OK. Thank you. No worries.
Um OK. Um Any other questions
I'm here to uh answer your questions and make you feel good and
ready to be able to offer a final webinar next week to address any
questions. Uh
mm I don't know about that one, Dina. I will uh I
I think the discussion forum should be fine.
Uh with the, you know, with the current uh,
code and we extended the deadline
already. So I hope that that should be enough.
Um, do you, I mean, ok, uh what do you
feel, you know, I want to obtain, you know,
um, your views, everyone. Do, do you feel that you're ok now to
address this or do you want uh, more help?
Yeah, I mean, the discussion forms are easier.
I must admit in that from that perspective as well.
Logistically also for us to arrange the webinar might be a bit
problematic. Yeah.
Right. Uh It's not a
question just uh you know, um put it in the
discussion.
Yeah. Neros, you want, you want an extra session,
I mean, it's less than a session but all this code that we've got at the moment there is a lot of moving.
Once we get connecting it, it would be nice to have a drop in session to have questions.
Not necessarily. Yeah. OK. Fine. Um
I want you to be uh to feel supportive. I
provide maybe I'll see what can I do if
we have the discussion for already? Um And if I
feel that, you know, uh like half an hour drop in session is,
is uh is necessary, then I'll do that.
Mhm Yeah. I mean, look that why I
want you also to, to experiment with the code and you know,
feel the resilience and feel the uh you know,
um get into the zone. Let me put it this way.
So, you know, because I think if you feel that you are by yourself,
you will be able to, to do more. Um I think anyway.
Uh All right, Barry. Yeah, no
problem. OK. Uh Any other
questions things you want to, to raise um you're happy,
you know, uh or otherwise go on. Uh
but it just was one question in the discussion about where we will be putting the lesson
16 updated volume. It will be put in
the uh Yeah. OK, good question. Um Lesson
16 will be put in lesson 16. Um I
will add uh in the same space uh these uh
the other extra um RL dot Y
and those are the workbooks. Excuse me, sir.
Those are the workbooks for unit five. Thank you.
Just to confirm. Yes. Yes. In the space in my space.
Did I say unit six? I didn't say no, no,
no, no, not at all. I was just confirming that that was the location where I saw 16
when you talk about a new file in the RN,
I mean the NRL. Excuse me. So yeah. No, that's great.
Thanks for confirming. That will be useful.
I might have a question since I've got the floor here.
Thank you very. It's very apologized. Um II
I think the question must sort of ask, but how comfortable are you in terms of
uh our adaptation of your code utilization of your code line for lying.
I know we're changing obviously the environment from um to the
vector environment from what you put in.
Um Can you give us some direction on that,
or perhaps a few words in that, on that topic?
Thank you. And no problem Barry. So you want a clarification
on uh on, on what exactly to, to
change in the code or you don't mean to tell me exactly.
But I'm thinking more along the lines of can I cut and paste and,
you know, tweak or, or what do you want from us?
I mean, I'd like to just cut and paste. I think your code is always blows me away.
I don't think I could touch it but others have much deeper
skills than me, that's for sure. Uh But,
but just a general direction you're providing us with a lot,
which is great. I don't, I'm not there there.
That's why I'm suggesting a drop in or some other follow up,
but the linkage and utilizing your code and what do you feel comfortable in terms of?
I don't know, would you throw out a percentage?
Would you throw it an attitude? I'm not sure.
Uh OK. OK. I see. Um So I
think what you should uh expect I would say to be honest
with you, I think what I'm coming from is that I don't want you to
completely re invent the wheel and create everything from scratch because,
you know, once you start to unpick the code and you,
you might not understand why we are doing this in this way.
I might do it in a different way and you start to,
uh you know, uh unroll everything in the
code. It will take a lot of time. It will actually
uh my, my fear is that it will derail you.
It will make, not only I'm not talking about you,
Barry, I'm talking about everyone and uh it will,
it will um it will actually be counter productive.
I think what you should do, you should try to do the minimum work,
right? The minimum coding and most of the time you should spend
on tweaking the, you know what we, what we,
what is already provided. Um The only maybe
um I would say kind of significant
uh implementation that you need to do is when you're doing the
uh the policy gradient methods, which is the active,
you're adding just this update, you know,
slightly changing them and you can have a look at the,
you know, online and do our lesson and what we,
how we did the update and all of that it should be,
but once it should be OK, it should be easy to,
to do. Um But once you start to
what you're describing is very useful. Thank you.
No problem. And the other thing is that I want to attract your attention to is
actually uh you know, for the for the linear case,
it should be straightforward because you have everything.
So, you know, I think uh you know, more than now,
I can't remember the, you know, the percentages.
So don't get me, you know, don't uh uh take my word for
it. Um I think, you know, what we are providing
you with here is that maybe 22 3rd of the
requirement is already required, you know,
is already given to you and you only need to tweak things,
you know, the hyper parameter and you know,
and train and the last step also, most of it is being
provided, you need to change, you know, maybe few lines of
code. That's what you know, that's what I think it should be the case,
it should be, you should be able to implement something as small as this
or maybe a little bit longer, maybe twice and then you'll be fine no more,
right? And you spend your time more on the training,
on the tweaking and and so on. Uh Hopefully I provided you with this
ability with this infrastructure and with this linkage between uh
reinforcement learning and robotics and you will be able to do this.
This is definitely the intention. Uh I hope you
will be able and I think you should. Uh No,
no, no, no. That's great. That's great. Thank you.
Appreciate it. No problem with it.
Yeah, the Nino version of the
great, great to hear Scott. Um Great.
Yeah. Thank you, Ricardo. Uh Yeah. So two th how far is it uh
is an experience? Ah So experience to play mechanism is
already provided for you. Uh Yeah, so it's there,
where is it? Um Let me go back to the
experience. Replay one second,
nonlinear. So uh experience,
replay is already in, you know, this
there is the batching here which is uh done for you and in the MD
P, you have all of these infrastructure also
provided for you. So you don't need to do a lot.
And then uh
um you
know, because we are doing batching, right?
We are doing a batch. It's already we are doing experience,
we play here, right? Because I am taking a batch of
uh previous experiences and encoding it
here. So this batch is actually a set of uh
rejected of, of, you know, of previous state visit,
visitation and rewards and actions. All of that is encoded here.
It's minimal. You think it's one, it's not actually it's
lots. And then uh I am passing these to
obtain their Q values. I'm passing the, the next state as well to obtain the
Q, the next value, the queue for the next values and whether they are done or not.
And then this update you with the indices provided there.
So it's already provided for you. Um Hope,
hope uh hope it's a I was
like um what episode? Uh I couldn't get
you clearly. Uh sorry.
Yeah, is it, is it OK? Is it clear with the,
with the, you know what, what we meant there?
You have the infrastructure you have already,
you know how to do it. Uh Try to focus, OK.
Let me be clear, try to focus on this update.
OK. If in your, in your policy gradient,
if you are OK. I I'll tell you what if you are at all,
you know, desperate and do something similar to this DQN and then of
course you lose marks. Um It's your choice.
I don't know what yet. Uh Great Alan.
Well, great, great. Uh No worries, Philip.
Um Great,
brilliant. Any other question which I haven't attended to?
Please do, let me know. I like your questions.
I enjoy actually, you know, answering them because you are,
you know, you unpick my brain, you make me,
you know, um express what
I, you know, spend a lot of time on. So it's a pleasure
always.
Uh just a quick question on what you just mentioned,
which was um you know, if we're desperate and we implement the DQN uh
update, um you know, we would lose market.
Is that just because DQ is not a policy gradient?
Is that what you're referring to? Is that why we're losing mark or is it because?
Yes correct. BQN is not a policy gradient.
You are not addressing, you know, if you do,
you're not addressing the uh the requirement and then there will be
you know? Ok, that makes sense. Thanks. Yeah,
no worries. Neither. Double DQN as well.
They, both of them are not, um, policy grad.
I mean, this might be the only challenge that,
uh, uh, is left because, you know, all of the
castles of challenges possibly should be.
Now. Uh, ok. I mean, don't get me wrong.
You spend time obviously tweaking and training and that's not trivial by
itself. So, um, uh, I'm, I'm, I'm my
personally, I'm looking forward to see your uh you know,
your results and your code and tell me your experience.
What I want to say also is, you know, um try
your best, I think since you come so far with the
module, uh you've done really well because this,
this is, this is quite, you know, I think this is quite
sophisticated uh topic to, to cover.
So if you gone so far and you are able, you could understand what's been
covered before, you know, the differences between the algorithms.
Um You know, the different approaches that we took,
you know, the coding encoding, um moving from
tabular to linear then to nonlinear, you know,
eligibility, eligibility traces. Um You know,
uh the nuances of these, the different environment linking the
robotics with the, the RL you've done really a lot
and that's, that's really, you know, uh that's,
that, that is really good. And
OK, uh I gather you don't have more questions for me.
Um No, I think
good, good. OK, brilliant. I hope you uh
enjoy uh the module. Um as I did, I enjoy
you guys. And really, I, I developed, you know,
although it's online, I said this is at least my feeling I don't express
it that much in the discussion forum, but I feel that I developed a kind of um
relationship with a lot of you. I've seen you in a few modules
and uh really, you know, um uh I value your,
you know, your input and your uh participation
and uh I hope to see you in, in, you know,
possibly later when you graduating. Um
Brilliant. OK. Uh You're most welcome. The one,
the last question is, oh,
uh it should have been uh released today.
I'm not sure why they are keeping them. I'll just chase them,
uh should, should be released soon. I think you,
you know, uh in general, they are also thank
you and thank you for everything um in this and previous way,
you know, no problem uh very happy. Actually,
I wanted also to mention a few things here,
appreciating, you know, the team, uh the help of Zhan as well.
And um you know, a lot of you were, were really good and uh you
know, active in the discussion for this is really very,
very pleasing to um contributing and, you know,
helping each other uh pointing out things which need maybe
some consideration so that all of that is really valuable.
Uh um I was maybe I, I wanted to
mention it uh earlier on uh one of you uh
participated in all of the discussion forms from the start.
I think maybe he is not here or yeah, I think he or she like
uh and really, um I'm, I'm impressed with this,
you know, dedication and, and you know, and hard working so well and
all of you and I hope to see you in the future.
Thank you. Thank you.
Bye bye.